So I'm gonna make a new file
here called pet.test.js.
But Brian,
why did you call it pet.test.js?
You don't have to call it test.js.
Force of habit.
I also like the cool
little special logo I get.
It's kinda like a cute little vial there.
I'm very easily entertained.
But it's not necessary,
I don't have to call it that.
It's actually, to be totally honest, it's
so I can find it quickly with Command+P or
CTRL+P, right?
Cuz now all I have to do is pet.test, and
I know exactly which one I'm looking at.
That's honestly the real
reason why I do it that way.
Okay, so
the first thing we gotta do up here is,
we have to give it a special comment to
let us know this is going to be run in
a browser like environment,
jest.environment.jsdom.
This is just telling just, hey,
I'm gonna be doing browser leave things
here, please instantiate js DOM.
Js DOM is a fake DOM implementation.
It is heavy because the DOM is heavy.
So you only wanna instantiate it on tests
that actually use it, which is gonna be
most of your React test, so just get
used to copying pasting this around.
Okay, we're gonna import some
helpers from jest import expect and
test from @jests/globals, okay?
We're gonna import render from
@testing/array/react, that's goodness.
And then we're going to
import pet from ../pet
Okay, and we're gonna write a test,
displays a default thumbnail.
I used to be really into the, it, should,
that kind of terminology for testing.
And it's like fluent testing or
there's some term for
it that no one cares about.
And I came back around to is like,
if something fails I just
wanna know what what failed.
So make sure whatever
string you're putting here,
if you see this test is failing, but you
know what that test was supposed to do.
So I think this is very clear.
If it doesn't display a default thumbnail,
then you know what's what's going wrong.
Okay, I'm gonna make an a sync
function here I'm gonna say
const pet=render pet, like that.
I'm gonna say const
petthumbnail=await pet.findbytestid.
Thumbnail.
And expect pet thumbnail.source,
to contain none.jpg.
This doesn't work yet, by the way,
just bear with me for a second.
Okay, we're going to render our pet,
right?
Good, we like that.
We're then going to look at what
it renders to find the thumbnail,
which we have not put this test Id in yet.
I'll show you what that
is here in just a second.
And then we're gonna check to see,
if I don't give it any images information,
what is the thumbnail going to be?
And we want it to be none, right?
Which is our placeholder image.
And you can imagine some situation
where we were having foreign images or
it wasn't displaying anything,
you'd write this test to prevent that from
happening, Okay?
So now if we do NPM test.
This is what I thought was gonna happen,
okay, So
we do have to install preset React.
So one more thing that we have to
do with our babelrc really quick,
we have to do NPM installed capital
P app babble/preset-React, okay?
This one saw one more transformation that
does all of our React transformations for
us in our babel RC.
I should have believed Pass Brian,
Pass Brian was correct.
We have to put this presets in here and
we have to tell it that we want it to run.
Preset, Let
me just go back to my notes here,
I can't remember this off the top my head.
It is @babel/preset-React
If you're following along with me,
just totally go copy this out of my notes.
There's no reason that you
need to copy this by hand.
You have to tell it
the runtime is automatic Okay?
And then down here you have to say,
@babel/preset- nth,
right, which is what we
were doing down here.
All right, and
I think that should fix our problem.
Cool, yes, that Is perfect.
So to sum up here,
make sure that you install preset-env,
make sure you install preset-react.
And then you need this babel
RC to make sure that it's
doing the correct transformations for
production.
So this first preset ones is going
to do all the transformations for
everything, whether it's in node or
in the browser.
Then this env one is
specifically if node env=test,
then transpile your code to target
node js inside of the browser.
That's everything that this
babel RC does All right,
now that we have chosen the correct
go-to sacrifice, our tests are working.
Well, they're not working,
but they could work.
[LAUGH] It's important.
So our test actually caught a bug, right?
So it's like, hey,
I'm trying to run this with no images and
images.length, this is not an array,
therefore this doesn't work.
So our tests have already caught a bug.
That's a positive thing.
So now head to your pet.js, and
here's this images.length and
the first thing that we have
to ask here if images, right?
If this is anything or you could do
something like, array.js array, right?
That's probably even better.
Okay, so now that we put that in.
Now we have a different error.
So we solved that image or that problem.
So this is actually a real bug
that did exist in the code,
which honestly I didn't intend to do.
I wrote the entire course and
came back later is like, this kind
of bug that I intend on being there.
But I left it in cuz that's
how you're supposed to fix it.
Now we have a different problem.
This has a link in it.
Link comes from React Router-DOM and
React Router dash DOM does
not work if it does not have
a router that's encapsulating it.
So, very easy fix to that.
All we have to do is say,
import static router from this will
be familiar if you took the section
on server side rendering.
This will come from
React Router Dom/slash server.
And then here all we have to do.
Cap this in a static router And
that's it, I don't think we have to even
tell it like a URL or anything like that,
it doesn't matter now, right?
So now we can do NPM test.
Still not passing, but
we're not getting that, use h=ref problem.
Now we're trying to do
this find by test ID, but
we haven't actually set that yet, right?
So this is what I want you to do
with this, head back over to pet.js.
And then here.
We have this image here.
This is our thumbnail.
This is the one that we care about, right?
So we're just going to say
a data-testid=thumbnail.
Okay, and then now if you'd run
NPM test So, now what passes.
So let's talk about why
we're doing it this way.
There's a couple ways you
can do selectors here.
I could totally query by CSS selectors
like all right, give me the image
tag that's inside of the image container
or give me the, whatever, class name.
Let me tell you why I
think this is better.
We're now decoupling the functionality and
the testing logic,
which I think is positive because
let's say I move the thumbnail and
it's down here now for some reason, right?
As I said UI's thrash all the time.
Because the test ID went with,
it it doesn't matter that
the CSS selector changed, right?
And I hate finagling back and forth like,
well what's the CSS selector now?
I'm decoupling the display logic
from the testing logic and
I think that's a positive thing.
Okay, that makes sense?
And that's actually a big point inside
of testing library that they try and
emphasize, try and keep those two
things as separate as possible.
So, let me show you another
very cool thing you can do.
We're gonna do NPM run test:watch.
Is it gonna make me do this with Git?
That's kind of interesting.
Okay, so you can just do a git init here.
This isn't.
No, it's not.
All right, now it's a git init.
Now I can do NPM run test watch.
So I guess you have to be
inside of a git repo for
the tenth watch functionality to work.
It's interesting, I didn't know that.
Now I have this really cool front end to
my testing suite and it's like, alright,
you know what,
I wanna run all my tests right now.
I'll hit a, and
they'll run all of my tests again.
And I can go back and
forth like, all right,
now only run tests that have changed
since the last time I updated this.
So you can say, and this will run this
because this is a new test, right?
But if I have a bunch of tests that
didn't run before, it won't run those.
Or if I save this again,
it'll automatically watch for tests and or
files that are being imported
by tests to change and
then that'll only run the tests
that I'm changing, right?
So it gives me a really fast feedback
cycle of things that are changing.
Does that make sense?
I love this,
I actually use it all the time.
Until we talked about
the VS code extension,
which actually makes this even easier.
But for now, I'm gonna show you this,
we'll stick with this for a bit.
All right,
let's write one more test for this.
We're gonna say test, and
we'll say displays a non
default thumbnail.
This is gonna look really similar, right?
We're gonna go and say blah.
We're gonna say,
it's actually pretty much mostly this.
We'll copy this,
we'll paste this down here, but
instead now we're gonna say pet and
we're gonna say images=,
and we're given an array of 1.jpg,
2.png and
3.webm, or something like that.
So we would expect, and actually now it's
failing, right, cuz I didn't change this.
We'd expect the thumbnail to be the first
thing in here, so it should be 1.jpg.
Same thing here.
This is good and
then this is gonna be 1.jpg.
And what did I not do here?
This is an async function.
Yeah, make sure that 21.
It has to be async because we're
doing a weight right here.
And now it's passing, right?
So if I give it images,
it'll pick the correct one to display.
And so, now I've pretty much written tests
that assure me that No matter what I'm
doing with all of my various
different thumbnail logic,
that both of those use cases are captured.
But notice,
this is from the perspective of the user
as opposed to implementation details.
I'm not looking for
that Pet is storing the correct hook here.
I'm not checking is hero set to
the correct path or something like that?
Or are the correct
prompts being passed in?
I'm checking,
does the user see the correct image?
Make it about the user don't
make it about yourself.
That's career advice for you right there.
I'm actually kind of
serious about that one.